# Section 988

Pages are built by appending nodes to the current list in $\TeX$'s vertical mode, which is at the outermost level of the semantic nest.
This vlist is split into two parts; the "current page" that we have been talking so much about already, and the "contribution list" that receives new nodes as they are created.
The current page contains everything that the page builder has accounted for in its data structures, as described above, while the contribution list contains other things that have been generated by other parts of $\TeX$ but have not yet been seen by the page builder.
The contribution list starts at *link(CONTRIB_HEAD)*, and it ends at the current node in $\TeX$'s vertical mode.

When $\TeX$ has appended new material in vertical mode, it calls the procedure *build_page*, which tries to catch up by moving nodes from the contribution list to the current page.
This procedure will succeed in its goal of emptying the contribution list, unless a page break is discovered, i.e., unless the current page has grown to the point where the optimum next page break has been determined.
In the latter case, the nodes after the optimum break will go back onto the contribution list, and control will effectively pass to the user's output routine.

We make *type(PAGE_HEAD) = GLUE_NODE*, so that an initial glue node on the current page will not be considered a valid breakpoint.

```c << Initialize the special list heads and constant nodes >>+=
type(PAGE_HEAD) = GLUE_NODE;
subtype(PAGE_HEAD) = NORMAL;
```
